OK let's talk about which platform should you consider first.
Here we have the Android platform which has caught up and surpassed users and developers over the iOS
platform.
Believe it or not I believe developers once they saw the Android platform surpassed Apple users it was
a no brainer.
Plus in the past with Android developers they didn't have to go through a review process.
Unlike Apple they simply uploaded their app any time they wanted.
That was the big advantage Android had over Apple.
Anybody can upload a piece of crap and it may or may not sell
update here.
Google Play now uses both an automated and human reviewers to review all Android apps.
This process started approximately in January 2015.
Many app developers didn't even notice any slowdown but the word is now.
Gone are the days when you could upload your app without it being reviewed.
The automated process sifts through looking for viruses and other bad things one shouldn't have on the
app such as bugs or glitches.
Now Google Play has human reviewers in place to increase quality assurance.
A human reviewer will only jump in to give the app a closer look.
When the automated process sends up a red flag if your app is Android then you have several app stores
to add your app to of which I'll list for you a bit later.
Now the biggest decision you have to make or the deciding factor of which door you place your app in
is how you are making money.
If your app primarily makes you money from showing ads then you can place your app on every Android
app store on the planet.
If your app makes the majority of its money from selling in-app purchases then you need to set up an
app billing differently for each Android app store.
The one caveat or warning I have for you.
If you place a version of your app on all of these different Android app stores is beware of when you
have an update.
Now you have to make up the time management.
It costs you to update several versions of your one app with Apple.
The developer normally waits anywhere from 1 to four weeks until it goes through a rigorous review process
which might get your app disapprove the number of times until the problem gets fixed.
It typically takes eight days on average for an I O S approval these days for those that worry about
receiving bad reviews on the Google Play app store.
The remedy for that was quite easy.
You could easily remove the app rename it and poof there goes all the bad reviews.
This way you can improve your app very quickly whereas you would have to wait to go through Apple's
stringent long review process with each and every update.
Please note that Apple's first review of your app takes the longest compare to any future updates once
your app gets approved of course.
My advice here is to still start on Android platform first because you can quickly get feedback from
your users and fix the problems with a faster review process versus Apple's review process.
Then when everything is fine and the feedback becomes positive to your satisfaction then go to Apple
with that updated fix version and upload it to iTunes App Store for review.
For those that want to put on a show and have a huge promotion then Apple is probably the way you want
to start out with lastly but to make the most money for your app today you want to be on both platforms
today.
Be sure to check out the recommended link below.
Ok I'll see you in the next lecture.